[Music]
this good people is finally something
fresh and different from fractal design
the era ITX enclosure it's unlike
anything we've seen from them yet and a
new ITX case on the market is always
exciting especially from a company that
tries to cater to the mainstream and at
the same time enthusiasts builds to and
that's what era is all about I've spent
the last two days working with this case
and it's not exactly what I expected
given the mission statement for this
project as you'll see later on it still
faces all the traditional challenges of
NES fffff a lot of NES ffs and closure
power up your PC with be quite straight
power Levin platinum series featuring 80
plus platinum efficiency a fully modular
design high quality Japanese capacitors
and a silent wingspan that's optimized
for air flow and silence choose be quiet
and your components will thank you
alright so first of all we have a five
different color options they're all
pretty unique and this is with a full
aluminum exterior plus TG and wood
panels for the top i've been patiently
waiting for wood integrations on more pc
cases and it's finally here with a metal
base plate and careful construction so
the wood doesn't warp over time because
of temperature fluctuations this also
means what top plates will be unique to
each case but they're only available on
the silver and gray models while the
more colorful versions get at eg panel
up top and this blue one in particular
looks quite elegant and very bright one
note about the TG panels they will be
thinner because the wood ones are
actually quite thick and therefore the
TG side of things should allow for more
airflow so you're looking to spend a
hundred and fifty nine dollars on the
era ITX regardless of color which is in
line with other ITX cases but still
pricey outside of the SFF bubble I love
the curvature of the chassis and the
ventilation pattern it is quite a
departure from their defined series but
it's not a small enclosure by any means
that's 16 litres it is larger than the
latest h1 and also because it's not a
vertical tower it does take up more desk
space all the aluminum edges on my
sample are refined and I haven't noticed
any quality concerns on the frame and
that have no issues displaying this case
in my living room or at my main space
we've got a good eye oh with the type C
Gen 2 USB 3 ports and the con
but audio jack and you'll also notice
there are no thumb screws anywhere
around the body and that is because the
side panels are completely - lists
that's it on four pegs with these rubber
grommets on the bottom while the top
plates are magnetic so you can simply
swap out the solid piece with the mesh
one and literally two seconds but the
wood panels looks just so much nicer
anyway I would say keep the wood on top
but maybe not as you'll see later the
ventilation on both side panels is
covered with a dust filter so are the
small strips at the bottom and that is
the only part of the frame that is not
aluminum or steel it is actually plastic
and in that cavity that is where your
graphics card will breathe breathe now
here's the interior it's kind of
interesting to see fractal focus heavily
on storage power supply compatibility
and water cooling support so for example
for storage options this vertical
bracket can mount doulas as these or a
single three and a half inch drive but
since it's above the socket CPU tower
clearance is limited to 120 millimeters
with nothing on a bracket or 70 million
is recommended with a hard drive
installed then we also have an internal
drive cage attached to an SFX bracket
that lets you either mount a single hard
drive or dual SSDs now the case supports
full-size ATX power supplies along with
SFX and SF XL and you can see the two
psu brackets on the right there with the
vertical mount system so you can move
your power supply up and down depending
on your hardware but because the second
drive bracket is attached to the SFX
power supply bracket if you are
installing an ATX unit you are
essentially limiting your storage
capacity to only that vertical bracket
and then for water cooling you can now
take 240 rad at the top or dual 120 on
the radiators - and because the bracket
is installed from above wider radiators
will not fit also the top fan bracket
can only be installed one way as it
appears to be symmetrical but doesn't
actually align with the mounting holes
so keep that in mind but with an ATX
power supply only 120 rad is supported
so era ITX is most optimal with an SF x
power supply because you're not
sacrificing on the radiator storage
above you're not eliminating that
additional drive bracket if you're gonna
use it and it's also much easier for
cable management when you don't
have the massive ATX procore power
supply that's also entering into your
GPU space when it comes to cable
management furthermore you can install
dual 140mm fans at the bottom as long as
you use a single slot GPU or don't use
one at all and there are no 120mm mounts
at the bottom because that will close
off the already limited space to breathe
for your graphics card and finally our
rear exhaust fan is an 80 millimeter fan
running at 1600 rpm so for my
configuration I went with a 240 AAA or
at the top and SFX L power supply with
slim cables and our TX 2060 super that
is nicely compact so first of all there
is no room behind the motherboard tray
to route cables or anything that isn't
super slim anyway so everything is
pretty much internal I am very happy to
see a Type C cable that is flexible and
not bulky but managing all the cables
exiting the power supply area is quite
difficult as in my case they start to
mingle with my GPU space so in a perfect
scenario you have 295 millimeters of
clearance for the GPU and you can even
remove the front IO cover if that gets
in your way and even though the side
panels are mostly solid cable management
is still not a strong suit for the era
ITX which brings us the most surprising
and disappointing part of this review
cooling and let me remind you of their
optimal airflow mission statement for
this project which is definitely not the
case here so get this the gorgeous solid
top panel which is probably why I would
want to buy this case the first place is
not adequately spaced out to exhaust air
and this heats up the system very fast
as you can see luckily the mesh top
helps with cooling the CPU but our
graphics card is still struggling for
air removing all panels you can see
another drastic drop in CPU temperature
but the graphics chamber is so poorly
ventilated it absolutely kills any
desire for me to actually use this in
the future and just for reference I
removed the bottom plastic cover raise
the case a little bit and my
temperatures finally got acceptable so
the culprit here is a poorly designed
bottom frame that just cannot breathe
and completely chokes your graphics card
here's how air compares to the NZXT h1
with the same hardware but a smaller AIO
very surprised that even still we get
better cooling inside the h1 on all
fronts and so the takeaway here is that
we have this beautiful aluminum wood or
tempered glass enclosure that actually
gives users options in terms of hardware
configurations but completely sabotages
on cooling I would buy the case with the
white oak or walnut top but then you're
penalized for air flow and I would not
want to use a low-profile CPU cooler and
therefore I would have to go with a mesh
design in case I want to mount radiator
up top they did not want to raise the
top panel above the actual frame to keep
it within design characteristics but in
doing so you completely sabotage calling
for the GPU and the CPU when you want
the case to look pretty furthermore GPU
temps are bad and cleaning cables inside
this thing is a bit of a mess but the
thing is I understand the flexibility
behind trying to please all types of
users but I think when it comes to ITX
focus is priority and is more important
having said that I hope to see more wood
integrations on cases in the future and
I think fractal is definitely going to
push that whole momentum forward but
this isn't the wood for me all right
guys I'm Dimitri thank so much for
watching check out this other relevant
content subscribe for more and I'll talk
to you next week
[Music]